Many random experiment can be viewed as a sequence of stochastically equiprobable sub-experiments.
  - ex) independent subexperiments: 복원추출 // dependent subexperiments: 비복원추출

## 1) Models for independent sub-experiments

### (1) Bernoulli Probability Model
- interested in a single event.
+ Bernoulli trials: the # of outcomes is two. (happen or not-happen)
    <=> $P(A)=p, \, P(A^c)=1-p$ 
+ **Theorem.** 
    Let $k$ the # of successes in $n$ independent Bernoulli trials. Then th probability of $k$ are given by the following binomial probability law: $$P_n(k)=\binom{n}{k}p^k(1-p)^{1-k}\; for\, k=0,1,...,n$$
+ satisfy all the axioms of probability law.
	cf) $\sum_0^nP_n(k)=1$ ==> $(a+b)^n=\sum\binom{n}{k}a^kb^{n-k}$ when $a=p, b=(1-p)$

### (2) Multinormial Probability Model
- interested in multiple events.
- **Theorem.** 
    Let $B_1, B_2, ..., B_n$ be the partition of the sample space $\Omega$ of a random experiment.
    Let $P(B_j)=P_j$
    Let $k$ is the # of event $B_j$ occurs.
    Then, the vector $(k_1, k_2, ..., k_n)$ satisfies the multinomial probability law: $$P_n(k_1,k_2,...,k_n)=\frac{n!}{k_1!k_2!...k_n!}P_1^{k_1}P_2^{k_2}...P_n^{k_n},\; (\sum k_i=n)$$

### (3) Geometric Probability Model
- repeat sub-experiments until a specific event occurs
  => $\Omega$ : the set of positive integer.
- Theorem.
    The probability of $(n-1)$ failures and $n$-th trial success is:$$P(m)=P(A_1^c,A_2^c,A_3^c,...,A_{n-1}^c,A_n)$$
    by indenpendence of events,$$= P(A^c)P(A^c)P(A^c)...P(A^c)P(A)$$$$(1-p)^{n-1}p$$
- satisfy all the axioms of probability law.
    cf) $\sum_1^\infty P(m)=\sum(1-p)^{n-1}p=\frac{1}{1-(1-p)}p=1$


## 2) Models for dependent sub-experiments

### (1) Markov Probability Model
- cf) $P(A\cap B\cap C)=P(A|B\cap C)P(B\cap C)=P(A|B\cap C)P(B|C)P(C)$ by the definition of conditional probability.
- $$P(S_n, S_{n-1}, ..., S_0)$$$$=P(S_n|S_{n-1},...,S_0)P(S_{n-1}|S_{n-2},...,S_0)...P(S_1|S_0)P(S_0)$$
  assume that $S_n$ depends on only $S_{n-1}$, $$P(S_n|S_{n-1})P(S_{n-1}|S_{n-2})...P(S_1|S_0)P(S_0)$$


